# LeetCode 3443. Maximum Manhattan Distance After K Changes

難度：Medium  
連結：[LeetCode 題目連結](https://leetcode.com/problems/maximum-manhattan-distance-after-k-changes/description/)

---

## 題目說明
    
You are given a string s consisting of the characters 'N', 'S', 'E', and 'W', where s[i] indicates movements in an infinite grid:

'N' : Move north by 1 unit.
'S' : Move south by 1 unit.
'E' : Move east by 1 unit.
'W' : Move west by 1 unit.
Initially, you are at the origin (0, 0). You can change at most k characters to any of the four directions.

Find the maximum Manhattan distance from the origin that can be achieved at any time while performing the movements in order.

The Manhattan Distance between two cells (xi, yi) and (xj, yj) is |xi - xj| + |yi - yj|.
 

Example 1:

Input: s = "NWSE", k = 1

Output: 3

Explanation:

Change s[2] from 'S' to 'N'. The string s becomes "NWNE".

Movement	Position (x, y)	Manhattan Distance	Maximum
s[0] == 'N'	(0, 1)	0 + 1 = 1	1
s[1] == 'W'	(-1, 1)	1 + 1 = 2	2
s[2] == 'N'	(-1, 2)	1 + 2 = 3	3
s[3] == 'E'	(0, 2)	0 + 2 = 2	3
The maximum Manhattan distance from the origin that can be achieved is 3. Hence, 3 is the output.

Example 2:

Input: s = "NSWWEW", k = 3

Output: 6

Explanation:

Change s[1] from 'S' to 'N', and s[4] from 'E' to 'W'. The string s becomes "NNWWWW".

The maximum Manhattan distance from the origin that can be achieved is 6. Hence, 6 is the output.

 

Constraints:

1 <= s.length <= 105
0 <= k <= s.length
s consists of only 'N', 'S', 'E', and 'W'.

## 解法
### 1. Greedy
#### 思路

因為這題不用管哪一個點要變成什麼，只要求最大的MD，因此可以用greedy。

每一步都要算出當前的MD，然後看看替換k個能不能變得更好，但最好只能變成idx+1(upper bound)，並求得最大newMD作為result。
    
#### 代碼

```c++
/*
    "NWSE" => 0, k = 2
    1. brute force:
        TC: O(CnK * 4^k) = O(4^k)
    2. greedy:
        newMD = currMD + min(k*2, idx + 1 - currMD);
*/
class Solution {
public:
    int maxDistance(string s, int k) {
        int result = 0, north = 0, south = 0, west = 0, east = 0;

        for (int idx = 0; idx < s.size(); idx++) {
            if (s[idx] == 'N')
                north++;
            else if (s[idx] == 'S')
                south++;
            else if (s[idx] == 'W')
                west++;
            else    // 'E'
                east++;

            int currMD = abs(north-south) + abs(west-east);
            int newMD = currMD + min(k*2, idx + 1 - currMD);
            result = max(result, newMD);
        }

        return result;
    }
};
```

#### 複雜度分析

- 時間複雜度：O(n)
- 空間複雜度：O(1)
