# LeetCode 621. Task Scheduler

難度：Medium  
連結：[LeetCode 題目連結](https://leetcode.com/problems/task-scheduler/description/)

---

## 題目說明
    
You are given an array of CPU tasks, each labeled with a letter from A to Z, and a number n. Each CPU interval can be idle or allow the completion of one task. Tasks can be completed in any order, but there's a constraint: there has to be a gap of at least n intervals between two tasks with the same label.

Return the minimum number of CPU intervals required to complete all tasks.

 

Example 1:

Input: tasks = ["A","A","A","B","B","B"], n = 2

Output: 8

Explanation: A possible sequence is: A -> B -> idle -> A -> B -> idle -> A -> B.

After completing task A, you must wait two intervals before doing A again. The same applies to task B. In the 3rd interval, neither A nor B can be done, so you idle. By the 4th interval, you can do A again as 2 intervals have passed.

Example 2:

Input: tasks = ["A","C","A","B","D","B"], n = 1

Output: 6

Explanation: A possible sequence is: A -> B -> C -> D -> A -> B.

With a cooling interval of 1, you can repeat a task after just one other task.

Example 3:

Input: tasks = ["A","A","A", "B","B","B"], n = 3

Output: 10

Explanation: A possible sequence is: A -> B -> idle -> idle -> A -> B -> idle -> idle -> A -> B.

There are only two types of tasks, A and B, which need to be separated by 3 intervals. This leads to idling twice between repetitions of these tasks.

 

Constraints:

1 <= tasks.length <= 104
tasks[i] is an uppercase English letter.
0 <= n <= 100

## 解法
### 1. Greedy
#### 思路

這題由於是找最小需要的interval，因此不用管他怎麼排，可以考慮用greedy。

首先讓最大頻率的task先放，該task一定要放(maxFreq - 1)個，而這些後面至少都會要有n個，因此為n + 1，最後再把最後一組放上去，如果是同時有多組最大頻率，則最後放的會是多組。

另外這題要注意一個case，就是有可能出現一堆不同的task，此時就不需要放idle，因此數量就會是所有task的數量，也是這題的Lower bound。
    
#### 代碼

```c++
/*
    1.
    A, A, A, B, B, B
    hash map: {'A', 3}, {'B', 3}, n = 2
    A->B->()->A->B->()->A->B
    min = (maxFreq - 1) * (n + 1) + p => p = 2 is the number of same biggest frequency
    2.
    A, A, A, A, B, B, B
    hash map: {'A', 4}, {'B', 3}, n = 2
    A->()->()->A->()->()->A->()->()->A
    min = (maxFreq - 1) * (n + 1) + p => p = 1 is the number of same biggest frequency
    3.
    A, A, A, C, D, E, F, G, H, I
    hash map: {'A', 3}, ..., n = 2
    A->(C)->(D)->A->(E)->(F)->A->(G)->(H)->I => lower bound, no need any idle
*/
class Solution {
public:
    int leastInterval(vector<char>& tasks, int n) {
        int minInterval = tasks.size();
        int maxFreq = 0, numMaxFreq = 0;
        unordered_map<char, int> taskMap;

        for (char task : tasks) {
            taskMap[task]++;

            if (taskMap[task] > maxFreq) {
                maxFreq = taskMap[task];
                numMaxFreq = 1;
            }
            else if (taskMap[task] == maxFreq) {
                numMaxFreq++;
            }
        }

        return max(minInterval, (maxFreq - 1) * (n + 1) + numMaxFreq);
    }
};
```

#### 複雜度分析

- 時間複雜度：O(n)
- 空間複雜度：O(n)
