# LeetCode 2365. Task Scheduler II

難度：Medium
連結：[LeetCode 題目連結](https://leetcode.com/problems/task-scheduler-ii/description/)

---

## 題目說明
    
You are given a 0-indexed array of positive integers tasks, representing tasks that need to be completed in order, where tasks[i] represents the type of the ith task.

You are also given a positive integer space, which represents the minimum number of days that must pass after the completion of a task before another task of the same type can be performed.

Each day, until all tasks have been completed, you must either:

Complete the next task from tasks, or
Take a break.
Return the minimum number of days needed to complete all tasks.

 

Example 1:

Input: tasks = [1,2,1,2,3,1], space = 3
Output: 9
Explanation:
One way to complete all tasks in 9 days is as follows:
Day 1: Complete the 0th task.
Day 2: Complete the 1st task.
Day 3: Take a break.
Day 4: Take a break.
Day 5: Complete the 2nd task.
Day 6: Complete the 3rd task.
Day 7: Take a break.
Day 8: Complete the 4th task.
Day 9: Complete the 5th task.
It can be shown that the tasks cannot be completed in less than 9 days.
Example 2:

Input: tasks = [5,8,8,5], space = 2
Output: 6
Explanation:
One way to complete all tasks in 6 days is as follows:
Day 1: Complete the 0th task.
Day 2: Complete the 1st task.
Day 3: Take a break.
Day 4: Take a break.
Day 5: Complete the 2nd task.
Day 6: Complete the 3rd task.
It can be shown that the tasks cannot be completed in less than 6 days.
 

Constraints:

1 <= tasks.length <= 105
1 <= tasks[i] <= 109
1 <= space <= tasks.length

## 解法
### 1. hash map
#### 思路

透過hash map紀錄最後執行時間，如果traversal天數，等到天數對了才執行下個task，會發生TLE。因此直接traversal tasks，如果該task無法執行，則直接快進到可以執行那天。

#### 代碼
```c++
class Solution {
public:
    long long taskSchedulerII(vector<int>& tasks, int space) {
        unordered_map<int, long long> lastExec;
        long long currDay = 0;

        for (int task : tasks) {
            // current task need more day off, accelerate currDay
            if (lastExec.count(task) && currDay - lastExec[task] <= space) {
                currDay = lastExec[task] + space + 1;
            }

            lastExec[task] = currDay;
            currDay++;
        }

        return currDay;	
    }
};

```

#### 複雜度分析

- 時間複雜度：O(n)
- 空間複雜度：O(n)
