# LeetCode 2013. Detect Squares

難度：Medium
連結：[LeetCode 題目連結](https://leetcode.com/problems/detect-squares/description/)

---

## 題目說明

You are given a stream of points on the X-Y plane. Design an algorithm that:

Adds new points from the stream into a data structure. Duplicate points are allowed and should be treated as different points.
Given a query point, counts the number of ways to choose three points from the data structure such that the three points and the query point form an axis-aligned square with positive area.
An axis-aligned square is a square whose edges are all the same length and are either parallel or perpendicular to the x-axis and y-axis.

Implement the DetectSquares class:

DetectSquares() Initializes the object with an empty data structure.
void add(int[] point) Adds a new point point = [x, y] to the data structure.
int count(int[] point) Counts the number of ways to form axis-aligned squares with point point = [x, y] as described above.
 

Example 1:


Input
["DetectSquares", "add", "add", "add", "count", "count", "add", "count"]
[[], [[3, 10]], [[11, 2]], [[3, 2]], [[11, 10]], [[14, 8]], [[11, 2]], [[11, 10]]]
Output
[null, null, null, null, 1, 0, null, 2]

Explanation
DetectSquares detectSquares = new DetectSquares();
detectSquares.add([3, 10]);
detectSquares.add([11, 2]);
detectSquares.add([3, 2]);
detectSquares.count([11, 10]); // return 1. You can choose:
                               //   - The first, second, and third points
detectSquares.count([14, 8]);  // return 0. The query point cannot form a square with any points in the data structure.
detectSquares.add([11, 2]);    // Adding duplicate points is allowed.
detectSquares.count([11, 10]); // return 2. You can choose:
                               //   - The first, second, and third points
                               //   - The first, third, and fourth points
 

Constraints:

point.length == 2
0 <= x, y <= 1000
At most 3000 calls in total will be made to add and count.

## 解法
### 1. math
#### 思路

透過unordered_map來儲存key為x，value為unordered_map，其key為y，value為出現次數。

透過此方法，我能在find的時候馬上找出x相同但"y不同"的point，接著透過兩個點y的距離，得出另外兩個點的x座標為何，最後透過三個點的數量，得出可以組成幾種axis-aligned square。

注意，另外兩個點的x座標可能是往正或往負長。

#### 代碼
```c++
class DetectSquares {
private:
    unordered_map<int, unordered_map<int,int>> pointStatis;
public:
    DetectSquares() {

    }
    
    void add(vector<int> point) {
        if (point.size() != 2) {
            return;
        }
        int x = point[0], y = point[1];
        pointStatis[x][y]++;
    }
    
    int count(vector<int> point) {
        if (point.size() != 2) {
            return 0;
        }
        int x = point[0], y = point[1], result = 0;

        for (const auto &[_y, cntP0] : pointStatis[x]) {
            if (_y == y) {
                continue;
            }

            int edgeLen = abs(y - _y);

            int cntP1 = pointStatis[x-edgeLen][y];
            int cntP2 = pointStatis[x-edgeLen][_y];
            result += cntP0 * cntP1 * cntP2;

            int cntP3 = pointStatis[x+edgeLen][y];
            int cntP4 = pointStatis[x+edgeLen][_y];
            result += cntP0 * cntP3 * cntP4;
        }

        return result;
    }
};

/**
 * Your DetectSquares object will be instantiated and called as such:
 * DetectSquares* obj = new DetectSquares();
 * obj->add(point);
 * int param_2 = obj->count(point);
 */
```

#### 複雜度分析

- 時間複雜度： Add: O(n), Count: O(k)
- 空間複雜度：O(n^2)
