# LeetCode 535. Encode and Decode TinyURL

難度：Medium  
連結：[LeetCode 題目連結](https://leetcode.com/problems/encode-and-decode-tinyurl/description/)

---

## 題目說明
    
TinyURL is a URL shortening service where you enter a URL such as https://leetcode.com/problems/design-tinyurl and it returns a short URL such as http://tinyurl.com/4e9iAk. Design a class to encode a URL and decode a tiny URL.

There is no restriction on how your encode/decode algorithm should work. You just need to ensure that a URL can be encoded to a tiny URL and the tiny URL can be decoded to the original URL.

Implement the Solution class:

Solution() Initializes the object of the system.
String encode(String longUrl) Returns a tiny URL for the given longUrl.
String decode(String shortUrl) Returns the original long URL for the given shortUrl. It is guaranteed that the given shortUrl was encoded by the same object.
 

Example 1:

Input: url = "https://leetcode.com/problems/design-tinyurl"
Output: "https://leetcode.com/problems/design-tinyurl"

Explanation:
Solution obj = new Solution();
string tiny = obj.encode(url); // returns the encoded tiny url.
string ans = obj.decode(tiny); // returns the original url after decoding it.
 

Constraints:

1 <= url.length <= 104
url is guranteed to be a valid URL.

## 解法
### 1. hash function
#### 思路



#### 代碼
```c++
class Solution {
private:
    int id = 0;
    const string tinyUrlPrefix = "http://tinyurl.com/";
    const string base62Char = "0123456789ABCDEFGHIJKLMNOPQRSTUVWXYZabcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz";
    unordered_map<string, string> url2Code, code2Url;
public:
    string getCode() {
        string code = "";
        int tmpId = id;
        /*
            123 / 62 = 1...61('z')
            1 / 62 = 0...1('1')
        */
        while (tmpId) {
            code += base62Char[id % 62];
            tmpId /= 62;
        }

        reverse(code.begin(), code.end());

        id++;

        return code;
    }

    // Encodes a URL to a shortened URL.
    string encode(string longUrl) {
        if (longUrl.empty())
            return "";
        
        if (url2Code.find(longUrl) != url2Code.end()) {
            return tinyUrlPrefix + url2Code[longUrl];
        }

        string currCode = getCode();

        url2Code[longUrl] = currCode;
        code2Url[currCode] = longUrl;

        return tinyUrlPrefix + currCode;
    }

    // Decodes a shortened URL to its original URL.
    string decode(string shortUrl) {
        if (shortUrl.empty() || !shortUrl.starts_with(tinyUrlPrefix))
            return "";

        string code = shortUrl.substr(tinyUrlPrefix.size());

        if (code2Url.find(code) != code2Url.end())
            return code2Url[code];

        return "";
    }
};

// Your Solution object will be instantiated and called as such:
// Solution solution;
// solution.decode(solution.encode(url));
```

#### 複雜度分析

- 時間複雜度：O(1)
- 空間複雜度：O(n)