# LeetCode 71. Simplify Path

難度：Medium
連結：[LeetCode 題目連結](https://leetcode.com/problems/simplify-path/description/)

---

## 題目說明

You are given an absolute path for a Unix-style file system, which always begins with a slash '/'. Your task is to transform this absolute path into its simplified canonical path.

The rules of a Unix-style file system are as follows:

A single period '.' represents the current directory.
A double period '..' represents the previous/parent directory.
Multiple consecutive slashes such as '//' and '///' are treated as a single slash '/'.
Any sequence of periods that does not match the rules above should be treated as a valid directory or file name. For example, '...' and '....' are valid directory or file names.
The simplified canonical path should follow these rules:

The path must start with a single slash '/'.
Directories within the path must be separated by exactly one slash '/'.
The path must not end with a slash '/', unless it is the root directory.
The path must not have any single or double periods ('.' and '..') used to denote current or parent directories.
Return the simplified canonical path.

 

Example 1:

Input: path = "/home/"

Output: "/home"

Explanation:

The trailing slash should be removed.

Example 2:

Input: path = "/home//foo/"

Output: "/home/foo"

Explanation:

Multiple consecutive slashes are replaced by a single one.

Example 3:

Input: path = "/home/user/Documents/../Pictures"

Output: "/home/user/Pictures"

Explanation:

A double period ".." refers to the directory up a level (the parent directory).

Example 4:

Input: path = "/../"

Output: "/"

Explanation:

Going one level up from the root directory is not possible.

Example 5:

Input: path = "/.../a/../b/c/../d/./"

Output: "/.../b/d"

Explanation:

"..." is a valid name for a directory in this problem.

 

Constraints:

1 <= path.length <= 3000
path consists of English letters, digits, period '.', slash '/' or '_'.
path is a valid absolute Unix path.

## 解法
### 1. stack
#### 思路

這題是要將非典型路徑轉換成典型路徑，基本上就是將word累積後丟進stack，如果遇到"."就不動作，遇到".."就pop一個出來(前提是有得pop)，最後在append進result中。

#### 代碼
```c++
/*
    canonical path:
        1. /home/google
        2. /home/...
        3. /home/..../google
    un-canonical path:
        1. /home//google    =>  /home/google
        2. /home/google/    =>  /home/google
        3. /home/.          =>  /home
        4. /home/..         =>  /

    /a/../b/.//c => /b/c
    stack:
        1. a
        2. (empty)
        3. b
        c. bc
*/
class Solution {
public:
    string simplifyPath(string path) {
        // dry run: /a/../b/.//c
        if (path.empty())
            return "";

        stack<string> pathStack;
        string result;

        string word;
        for (const char c : path) {
            if (c == '/') {
                if (word == ".") {
                    // do nothing
                }
                else if (word == "..") {
                    if (!pathStack.empty())
                        pathStack.pop();
                }
                else if (word != "") {
                    pathStack.push(word);
                }

                word = "";
            }
            else
                word += c;
        }

        // check last word
        if (word == ".") {
            // do nothing
        }
        else if (word == "..") {
            if (!pathStack.empty())
                pathStack.pop();
        }
        else if (word != "") {
            pathStack.push(word);
        }

        while (!pathStack.empty()) {
            result = "/" + pathStack.top() + result;
            pathStack.pop();
        }

        return result == "" ? "/" : result;
    }
};
```

#### 複雜度分析

- 時間複雜度：O(n)
- 空間複雜度：O(n)
