# LeetCode 80. Remove Duplicates from Sorted Array II

難度：Medium
連結：[LeetCode 題目連結](https://leetcode.com/problems/remove-duplicates-from-sorted-array-ii/description/)

---

## 題目說明
    
Given an integer array nums sorted in non-decreasing order, remove some duplicates in-place such that each unique element appears at most twice. The relative order of the elements should be kept the same.

Since it is impossible to change the length of the array in some languages, you must instead have the result be placed in the first part of the array nums. More formally, if there are k elements after removing the duplicates, then the first k elements of nums should hold the final result. It does not matter what you leave beyond the first k elements.

Return k after placing the final result in the first k slots of nums.

Do not allocate extra space for another array. You must do this by modifying the input array in-place with O(1) extra memory.

Custom Judge:

The judge will test your solution with the following code:

int[] nums = [...]; // Input array
int[] expectedNums = [...]; // The expected answer with correct length

int k = removeDuplicates(nums); // Calls your implementation

assert k == expectedNums.length;
for (int i = 0; i < k; i++) {
    assert nums[i] == expectedNums[i];
}
If all assertions pass, then your solution will be accepted.

 

Example 1:

Input: nums = [1,1,1,2,2,3]
Output: 5, nums = [1,1,2,2,3,_]
Explanation: Your function should return k = 5, with the first five elements of nums being 1, 1, 2, 2 and 3 respectively.
It does not matter what you leave beyond the returned k (hence they are underscores).
Example 2:

Input: nums = [0,0,1,1,1,1,2,3,3]
Output: 7, nums = [0,0,1,1,2,3,3,_,_]
Explanation: Your function should return k = 7, with the first seven elements of nums being 0, 0, 1, 1, 2, 3 and 3 respectively.
It does not matter what you leave beyond the returned k (hence they are underscores).
 

Constraints:

1 <= nums.length <= 3 * 104
-104 <= nums[i] <= 104
nums is sorted in non-decreasing order.

## 解法
### 1. two pointer
#### 思路

和26. Remove Duplicates from Sorted Array概念相同，差別只在於最多可以允許兩個重複，因此要檢查是否和要放入位置的前一個和前前一個。

#### 代碼
```c++
/*
    nums = [0,0,1,1,1,1,2,3,3]
    i = 2, j = 2
    if (nums[j] != nums[i-1] && nums[j] != nums[i-2])
        nums[i++] = nums[j]
*/
class Solution {
public:
    int removeDuplicates(vector<int>& nums) {
        if (nums.size() <= 2)
            return nums.size();

        int l = 2;
        for (int r = 2; r < nums.size(); ++r) {
            if (nums[r] != nums[l-1] || nums[r] != nums[l-2])
                nums[l++] = nums[r];
        }

        return l;
    }
};
```

#### 複雜度分析

- 時間複雜度：O(n)
- 空間複雜度：O(1)
