# LeetCode 958. Check Completeness of a Binary Tree

難度：Medium  
連結：[LeetCode 題目連結](https://leetcode.com/problems/check-completeness-of-a-binary-tree/description/)

---

## 題目說明
    
Given the root of a binary tree, determine if it is a complete binary tree.

In a complete binary tree, every level, except possibly the last, is completely filled, and all nodes in the last level are as far left as possible. It can have between 1 and 2h nodes inclusive at the last level h.

 

Example 1:


Input: root = [1,2,3,4,5,6]
Output: true
Explanation: Every level before the last is full (ie. levels with node-values {1} and {2, 3}), and all nodes in the last level ({4, 5, 6}) are as far left as possible.
Example 2:


Input: root = [1,2,3,4,5,null,7]
Output: false
Explanation: The node with value 7 isn't as far left as possible.
 

Constraints:

The number of nodes in the tree is in the range [1, 100].
1 <= Node.val <= 1000

## 解法
### 1. BFS
#### 思路

使用queue來每層遍歷，如果出現了null，代表後面都不能有null發生。

#### 代碼
```c++
/*
    case 1. true
	[0]
	[1, 2]
	[3,4,5,6]

	[0] => [1,2] => [2,3,4] => [3,4,5,6] =>[4,5,6] =>hadNull=>[4,5,6]

	case 2. false
    [0]
	[null, 2]	
	[null,null,5,6]
	
	[0] => had null => [2]

	case 3. false
    [0]
	[1, null]
	[3,4,null,null]

    case 4. false
    [0]
	[1, 2]
	[3,4,null,6]

	case 5. true
	[0]
	[1, 2]
	[3,4,5,null]

	1. only can have null in last layer
	2. if null happen, it should not appear any number from pear or child(no more in queue or later)
*/

/**
 * Definition for a binary tree node.
 * struct TreeNode {
 *     int val;
 *     TreeNode *left;
 *     TreeNode *right;
 *     TreeNode() : val(0), left(nullptr), right(nullptr) {}
 *     TreeNode(int x) : val(x), left(nullptr), right(nullptr) {}
 *     TreeNode(int x, TreeNode *left, TreeNode *right) : val(x), left(left), right(right) {}
 * };
 */
class Solution {
public:
    bool isCompleteTree(TreeNode* root) {
        queue<TreeNode *> bfsQue;
        bfsQue.emplace(root);

        bool hadNull = false; 
        while (!bfsQue.empty()) {
            auto currNode = bfsQue.front();
            bfsQue.pop();
            
            if (currNode->left) {
                if (!hadNull)
                    bfsQue.emplace(currNode->left);
                else
                    return false;
            }
            else {
                hadNull = true;
            }

            if (currNode->right) {
                if (!hadNull)
                    bfsQue.emplace(currNode->right);
                else
                    return false;
            }
            else {
                hadNull = true;
            }	
        }

        return true;
    }
};

```

#### 複雜度分析

- 時間複雜度：O(n)
- 空間複雜度：O(h) => 因為這是遞迴DFS，所以呼叫堆疊的最大深度是樹的高度。